# Spotify Webscraping
## Web scraping and analysis of the top songs on Spotify.

The 21th century has witnessed the technological advancement in music industry that allowed consumers to store music in hard disks such as MP3 or iPods. The increasing prevalence of smart phones and the digitization of music prompted the establishment and wide usage of numerous music-listening apps such as Spotify, Google Play Music and Apple Music, among others, that gradually replaced CDs. Such switch of music consumptions, from purchasing physical albums to purchasing the single track, not only changed the customer experience, but also fundamentally changed the economics of the music industry. 

Due to such a music industry evolution, Chris Anderson (2004) proposed the long tail theory to characterize the music consumption in digital era, in which a large portion of tracks that were once unknown have gained certain level of popularity altogether to form a long tail of the consumption distribution. This implies that the popularity of the music and artists may spread within a larger range, increasing sales of less known tracks from nearly zero to few.

More recently, the emergence of streaming platform designs such as Pandora and Spotify, as well as the utilization of Artificial Intelligence into music recommendations have gradually exhibited a spill-over effect (Aguiar and Waldfogel 2018) – music listened by other users with similar histories are recommended, thus increasing the music popularity as it spreads from several users to a larger group. This pushed a short list of tracks to become uniquely popular. In 2018, Professor Serguei Netessine from Wharton University of Pennsylvania stated in his podcast that, “We found that, if anything, you see more and more concentration of demand at the top”. Although the podcast focused on movie sales, experiences goods like theater and music sales occur in a similar fashion. In the book “All you need to know about the music industry” by Passman (2019), he highlighted key differences between music business in the streaming era and record sales. In the days of record sales, artists get paid the same money for each record sold, regardless of whether a buyer listened to it once or a thousand times.  But today, the more listens the music tracks have, the more money the artists make. Meanwhile, records sales do not have strong spillover effects as fans of different artists/genres will purchase what they like anyway. In fact, a hit album would bring a lot of people into record stores, and that increased the chances of selling other records. But in the streaming world, that’s no longer true. The more listens one artist gets, the less money other artists would make. In other words, the music consumption is undertaking a radical shift which may affect the definition of popularity in the streaming era, however, it is yet severely underexplored.

Inspired by the evolution of music industry in the recent decades and the recent debunk of long tail theory given a high concentration of popularity for a short list of tracks, this assignment aims to investigate the popularity of music tracks on streaming platform, largely different and not extensively explored about compared to that measured by album sales. In particular, rather than considering the level of advertisement, the inclusion in playlists of Spotify 100 as Luis Aguiar and Joel Waldfogel (2018) have noted. 
